>> Nina Zakharenko: If we wanna look for
items, we have a few ways of doing that.
But you have to remember that looking for
an item in a list is actually
a really slow operation.
That's because under the hood,
each value is checked to be like are you
the right one, are you the right one?
No, okay, let me look at the next one,
are you the right one, right?
And so for a large list,
that can take some time.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
to check if an item is in the list and
at which position there's
a few ways of doing that.
So I'm gonna make a new list of names,
I'm gonna put four items in it
>> Nina Zakharenko: Now, purposefully
the last item that I'm putting in this
list is the same as the first item.
So if you're making
your own list of names,
make sure the pattern
that same kind of caveat.
>> Nina Zakharenko: We can use the in
keyword to determine if a value or
an item is present in the list or not.
So I can say here's
the value of a variable and
then I can use the in keyword and ask is
Rose in names and I'll get back false.
If I try the same thing with Nina,
will get back true.
So true and
false are Python's Boolian values, right?
They're built in types,
they're always available, right?
So when I asked if Nina was in names,
Python said true, which means yes.
When I asked if Rose was in names,
Python said false, which means no.
>> Nina Zakharenko: You can also
use the index method on the list to
find the first index of a potential match.
So if I call names.index("Max"),
I'm gonna get the index of 1.
If I call names.index("Nina"),
what am I gonna get, what?
>> Student: One, or zero, yeah I'm sorry.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Zero,
that's right, zero.
It's only in the first result.
Even though Nina is repeated again
at the end of the list, using index
will only give me the first result.
If you want to figure out how many
times an item appears on a list,
you can use the count method.
So names.count of Max will be 1.
Names.count of Nina will be what?
2, okay cool.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So I already showed
you how to update items at a position,
right?
If I wanted to change the very
first item in that list to be,
I already showed you how to update
items at a position, right?
If I wanted to changed the very
first item in that list to be
at Jimmy,
I can just do that by using the index and
if we take a look we'll see our new list,
right?
>> Nina Zakharenko: You can also
use this in combination with .index
to find the value that you wanna change.
So let's say I want to
replace Phillip with Floyd.
I can say the position that I
want is names.index of Phillip.
And then, I can update my names
list at the returned position,
oops, Floyd one l or two l's?
>> Student: One
>> Nina Zakharenko: One l, okay, oops,
okay, I got a name error.
The name Floyd is not defined,
why did that happen?
>> Student: No quotes around it.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Right,
I forgot to put quotes around it.
So Python thinks that it's
a variable that I haven't declared,
but really I just forgot my quotes.
Okay, so taking a look at
our names now we'll see that
Philip has been replaced with Floyd
at the position that we found.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
just like we saw earlier,
so I have our list of names right
the length of the names is four.
If I tried to update an item at index 4,
it's not a valid index, right?
Our index that we count from starts at 0.
>> Nina Zakharenko: I'm
gonna get an error,
an index error that the list
assignment index is out of range.